#Kickstarting with Excel

##Overview of Project and Purpose of Analysis
	The purpose of our analysis in this segment was to provide Louise a visual representation of quantitative data that we have specifically extracted from what would be an overwhelming data to sift through manually. The lesson had covered the information Louise needed to provide her information on what successful campaigns looked like through the use of filtering the data relevant to plays and in a particular graphical region that would be valuable to her. Following the data, Louise was able to come close to her fundraising goal and wanted to find out how different campaigns fared in their outcomes with relation to their goals and launch date. The analysis’s purpose was to provide a format that would be easy for Louise to digest the information in a simple manner without having to analyze what would just be numbers in rows and columns otherwise. 

###Analysis and Challenges
	The analysis was performed by extracting the data from the original Kickstarter sheet that had been filtered and modified with few extra categories that would be relevant to create the charts that would be describing the relationship between outcomes by launch date and outcomes based on goals. The chart that would show the outcomes by launch date was created by looking for the outcomes specific to the year and the parent category which would be set to theater. These filters would allow the chart to only show information that’s specific to what Louise is looking for. With the parameters set, all that’s left to do is to arrange which variable goes in x and which in y. In the case for the outcomes by launch date, the data set including the outcome would be in the y or dependent variable axis and the time of the year in the x or independent variable axis. Using a line chart allows Louise to quickly analyze the variable outcomes in different times of the year.  A similar procedure would follow when setting up the outcomes based on goal. However, this time a countifs() function will be used to filter through outcomes, range of goals, and category to count the number of items based on the parameters set with the filters. Using the new data that has been created through the function we can find the percentage of successful, cancelled, and live shows with relation to the range of the goals, through simpler excel equation that will sum and divide the quantities. 
	The most challenging part of the analysis was organizing the data and trying to extract the numbers that would be relevant to the chart. The difficult task when creating these charts would also be finding out how to create the data from the original to create a new variable with relation to one that already exists. This is relevant to creating the outcomes based on goals chart. This chart required a percentage of the successful and percentage of the fails which would mean we would have to pull or create new data from the existing data that currently exists.  Once that has been done, then it is possible to compare to the goals with specific ranges. I feel that this is a very challenging part when you are new to working with data and you are tasked to create new data with the information you have and must now find a relationship between the two new variables.

####Results
	Two conclusions we can draw about the theater outcomes by launch date would be that December has the lowest count of successful outcomes with almost nearly the same count that have failed. This leads to a conclusion that December is the least ideal month of the year to start a fundraiser that is relevant to theater. Another conclusion would be that May is possibly the best time to start a fundraiser due to the fact that it has the highest count of successful outcomes. I believe this is a valid argument regardless of the fact that May also has the highest number of failed outcomes, because based on a rough estimation the difference between the successful and failed outcomes in May is also the greatest as well.  
	I would conclude that the outcomes based on goals would not be a good reference or an example to follow when trying to create your own fundraiser based on this information because it is hard to conclude anything from this chart, as its points are all over the place and hard to understand any pattern if there is any.
	Some limitations of this dataset are that there are some inconsistencies in the charts that we have created. For an example, in the theater outcomes by launch date, if one were to actually sift through the individual years, they would notice that 2014, 2015, 2016 make up for a significant portion of that data that creates the chart. Once it is filtered to 2017 there is actually a low amount of data relevant to theater outcomes compared to the prior 3 years.  It is a problem for the chart to have so much of its data from 2009-2017. It also creates a problem when trying to observe a trend as the years progress as you move through the data from 2014, 2015, 2016, and 2017. It is hard to make any conclusion on whether theater is getting easier to create a fundraiser for or difficult to create a fundraiser for. It is possible that with a conclusion that theater became significantly harder to fundraise in 2017, you decrease the goal of the fundraiser and how a lower budget. 
	Some other possible graphs that we could be relevant would be to also understand out of the successful outcomes, which fundraisers actually raised more than the goals that were set compared to the time of the year. This could be done by taking the pledged amount/ goal set*100 which would give us a percentage. We would be able to find every play that has been able to do this by setting the outcome to successful which would set the bare minimum to 100%. Once this has been done we could possibly sort it from highest to lowest which would allow us to see possibly the top 5 or top 10 allowing us to narrow down on which fundraisers were the most successful in getting more money than the goals that they have set at which time of the year. 

